README.md, before:

# Assembly Metrics
Assess a genome assembly using various metrics (e.g. N50, total length, BUSCO)    

Scripts found within the directory `01_scripts/00_utility_scripts` originate from various sources, and these are attributed within each of the scripts themselves. 

Run scripts from the main directory of the repo.    

Requirements:
`biopython`
`BUSCO`
`bwa`
`samtools`
`python3`

### 1. Simple Calculations on fasta ###
`01_scripts/01_fasta_summarize.sh <assembly.fasta> <minimum_length>`   

Where minimum length is a number that is the smallest length that you would like your assembly to contain.   

Provides for the full assembly and the limited length assembly:     
* number of records
* total length
* n50 

### 2. Markers against genome ###
First use bwa to index your assembly.fasta
`bwa index <assembly.fasta>`

`01_scripts/02_fasta_map.sh <query.fasta> <assembly.fasta>`

Then use a utility script to get statistics from the .bam file    
`01_scripts/00_utility_scripts/bam_assess.sh 02_assemblies/<output.bam>`

### 3. BUSCO evaluation ###
Using the job submission file, BUSCO can be run on multiple assemblies all found within 02_assemblies/*.fasta    
To set up on your own directory, customize the following in the SLURM job file:      
* Set path to BUSCO python script    
* Set path to BUSCO lineage folder    
* Set directories within the batch submission top part of the job script

After customizing to your directory, submit the job script    
`sbatch 01_scripts/jobs/job_BUSCO_multiple.sh`

This will result in multiple BUSCO directories for each fasta file found in your 02_assemblies folder

Commit message:

Add instructions for fasta manip 0 region

README.md, after:

# Assembly Metrics
Assess a genome assembly using various metrics (e.g. N50, total length, BUSCO)    

Scripts found within the directory `01_scripts/00_utility_scripts` originate from various sources, and these are attributed within each of the scripts themselves. Many are from Eric Normandeau's scripts repo:  https://github.com/enormandeau/Scripts   


Run scripts from the main directory of the repo.    

Requirements:
`biopython`
`BUSCO`
`bwa`
`samtools`
`python3`


### 0. Prelim Options ###
It is possible to reduce your fasta file to only contigs > 500 using the utility script as follows:    
`./01_scripts/00_utility_scripts/fasta_minlength.pl 500 my.fasta > my_minl500.fasta`   

You can confirm the smallest contig size using     
`./01_scripts/00_utility_scripts/fasta_min_len.py my_minl500.fasta`


### 1. Simple Calculations on fasta ###
`01_scripts/01_fasta_summarize.sh <assembly.fasta> <minimum_length>`   

Where minimum length is a number that is the smallest length that you would like your assembly to contain.   

Provides for the full assembly and the limited length assembly:     
* number of records
* total length
* n50 

### 2. Markers against genome ###
First use bwa to index your assembly.fasta
`bwa index <assembly.fasta>`

`01_scripts/02_fasta_map.sh <query.fasta> <assembly.fasta>`

Then use a utility script to get statistics from the .bam file    
`01_scripts/00_utility_scripts/bam_assess.sh 02_assemblies/<output.bam>`

### 3. BUSCO evaluation ###
Using the job submission file, BUSCO can be run on multiple assemblies all found within 02_assemblies/*.fasta    
To set up on your own directory, customize the following in the SLURM job file:      
* Set path to BUSCO python script    
* Set path to BUSCO lineage folder    
* Set directories within the batch submission top part of the job script

After customizing to your directory, submit the job script    
`sbatch 01_scripts/jobs/job_BUSCO_multiple.sh`

This will result in multiple BUSCO directories for each fasta file found in your 02_assemblies folder
